RATIO 1 Inflow
1. Introduction
“Good day, you are speaking to {Agent’s Name} and I am calling you from the Cartrack Accounts Department. May I speak to {Client’s Full Name}.”

2. Verification
“Please note that this call is recorded for quality and security purposes & to ensure I am speaking to the right person, please confirm the following details:” 
    • Confirm any 3 of the following:
    a) Username
    b) Date of birth
    c) Vehicle registration
    d) Vehicle Make
    e) Vehicle Model
    f) Vehicle colour
    g) VIN Number
    h) Email address
    i) Residential Address
    j) Contact Number
    k) Full ID/Passport number (Can be confirmed on its own)

If speaking to a 3rd party who knows & is in contact with the client, leave the following message:
“Sir/madam kindly advise our client Mr/Mrs/Miss/Dr {Client’s Full Name} that Cartrack called regarding an outstanding account. Please advise them to contact Cartrack urgently on 011 250 3000 to resolve this outstanding matter.”  

3. Reason for call
“{Client Name/Sir/Ma’am}, we did not receive your subscription payment and your account is now overdue. An immediate payment of {Amount} is required to bring your account up to date.”
4. Negotiation
Consequences of not paying account
“Failure to make an immediate payment of the arrears will result in the suspension of the following services:”
(i)Access to the Cartrack App
(ii)Vehicle positioning through our control room
(iii)And notifications regarding your vehicle

Benefits of paying account
“Once the payment has been received, your account will be in good standing and all suspended services will be reinstated.”
- If the client has a query, resolve it effectively

5. Promise to Pay
“For your convenience can we debit this amount from your account today?”
If “Yes,” proceed to load an immediate Debit order.
If “No,” - Load a Debicheck PTP 
“{Client Name/Sir/Ma’am}, please provide me with the bank details into which your salary is paid and confirm the exact date you receive your salary”

If the Client gives the same details as per the failed PTP: 
“{Client Name/Sir/Ma’am}, we have attempted to debit the subscription as per the details you have provided and the debit orders were unsuccessful. We therefore need you to provide correct details to ensure your payments are successful.”

If the Client has previously reversed a successful debit order: 
“{Client Name/Sir/Ma’am}, our records indicate that you previously reversed a successful debit order on this bank account leading to your account falling into arrears. It is vitally important to ensure you honor your promise to pay to prevent services from being made unavailable to you. We have attempted to debit the subscriptions as per the details you have provided and the debit orders were unsuccessful. We therefore need you to provide correct details to ensure your payments are successful.”
If the bank details have changed: Update them on CAMS then load Debicheck PTP
 6. Debicheck (Not applicable to same-day debit orders captured before 2 pm on the day)
“You will receive an authentication request to your cellphone from your bank to approve this Debicheck. {Client}, please approve this request as soon as you receive it to ensure we have a confirmed debit order arrangement. Also, note that there is an applicable R10 resubmission fee so the full amount to be debited will be {PTP Amount + R10}.”
NB: Remember to check Bank detail errors and ensure they get fixed before loading the Debit order arrangement.

7. Subscription
“Please take note that this debit order is for paying off your arrears. Your normal monthly subscription of {Amount} will also be debited on {Date}.”

8. Cartrack Payment Portal
“For your convenience, an SMS has been sent to you with a Cartrack payment portal link. Please click the PAY HERE button. It will take you to a payment page where you can edit the amount to the {Amount} that we agreed on. Once you have entered the amount we have agreed on, please click on CONFIRM & NEXT and you will see the different payment methods i.e. (Card Payment/Ozow/CapitecPay/Pay@).”
You can send the link on the spot, on CAMS if the client has not received the link.

“Please select that option that you prefer using and click CONFIRM & NEXT.”
Take the client through the steps for the selected payment method.

“Your payment as per the agreed arrangement has now been completed. You will get a pop-up showing you the total remaining arrears and asking you to arrange for the next payment to be made. Please edit the amount you will pay & the date, which must be within the next 30 days. You will receive an SMS reminder with a payment link a day before the date you have selected. You will click on the link and proceed to make the payment as you did now. Should you require any assistance, click on the WhatsApp icon & one of our friendly agents will assist you with completing the payment.”

9. Client Details Update   

If not already done during the verification or PTP capturing stage, update the following:
    a) Direct Contact Number
    b) Email address
    c) Banking Details & salary date
    d) Next of kin details

10. Referrals

“Do you know anyone who would be interested in Cartrack's services? Should they sign up and have a unit fitted on their vehicle after you have referred them, Cartrack will give you 2 months free on your subscription.”

If YES, ask the client to provide you with their contact details and action referral on the referral portal.


11. Further Assistance

“{Client Name} is there anything else you would like me to assist you with concerning your account?"
If YES, assist accordingly.

12. Add Detailed Note

13. Disposition Correctly

14. Cancellation Declaration
If a client wants to cancel, establish the contract to be canceled and the reason for the cancellation. Advise of the cancellation value (If applicable), and that you will escalate the cancellation request to the relevant department (Client services). 
Log a cancellation ticket on the Helpdesk (If applicable). Failure to do so will result in the call being zero-rated.
“Please be advised that the cancellation fee on your account is {Cancellation Value} and in total, you will need to pay {Total Balance} for the account to be paid up. I have logged a ticket with our cancellations department & they will contact you shortly to assist with your cancellation request and inform you of the applicable terms & conditions.”  

